INSIDE HER - Patrick King

1 - Be dominant, she loves leaders.

2 - Never bring up issues from the past. Keep your argument focused on present. 
Digging up issues from the past won't solve the current problem.

3 - No matterhow irrational your feelings are, they are still valid and a reflection of yourmental and emotional state.

4 - You feel what you feel, and you are entitled to that, but that doesn't mean thatit's always reasonable for you to act on it and expect others to conform to it.

5 - Make it safe for her to be vulnerable.
 
A major part of an ace relationship is fostering an environment that is both welcoming and safe for all kinds of communication.

So when you dig and dig and finally are able to squeeze something out of her,make it known that you are very accepting of those insecurities. Celebrate themand tell her how those very things make her more attractive to you and maybeeven drew you to her in the first place.

Compliment her on them and make it a goal to raise her self-esteem about thevery things she is self-conscious about. 

6 - Match up your styles of affection.

     5 typical classifications of how people show and receive affection.
Physical touch, spending quality time together, spontaneous acts of kindness,words of affirmation, and performing their duties for them.

7 -  Don't make her totally dependent on you. It may make you dislike her.

If she is resentful, she will likely try to assert control or dominance in therelationship in some other way, which can be dangerous to deal with.

The best part is that if you give her this space to do what she wants without any
type of guilt, she will feel lucky that you are so accommodating and you will
forever be the "cool and chill" boyfriend.
 
8 - One of the worst that will undoubtedly eat away at your woman is comparing herto another woman. 


9 - You shouldn't rationalize her actions or find yourself in theposition to make excuses for her behavior. If it's bad, it's objectively bad, circumstances notwithstanding. No excuses or buts.

10 - The biggest problem that friends (or you...) have is when theyhave made themselves dependent on their woman for their happiness, and thatthey don't feel complete without her. Fairy tales aside, this is an extremelyunhealthy approach to a relationship for a number of reasons.

First, you lose your identity and probably many of the reasons that your womanbecame attracted to you in the first place.

Second, you run the big risk of becoming a burden to your woman, because
when you become dependent on her, you make her lose her own independence
because she will feel obligated to spend more time with you, and feel guilt when
she does not.

11 - You are responsible for your own happiness... she's undoubtedly a part of that,but only a part.

12 - Inspire her, motivate her.

Instead of dragging her downand putting your dependence on her, act as your woman's muse by seeking toinspire, enlighten, and motivate her.

A truly healthy relationship should act as a vehicle towards self-growth anddevelopment with your woman. Ideally, a couple develops together and continues to find new ways to enrich their lives... but this isn't possible if eitherparty is a parasite. Adding value simply isn't possible from a dependent party.

Inspiring and motivating starts with you - you must actively become her muse.
When you setexpectations for yourself and surpass them, your woman will follow suit andstep up to the plate to equal you. 

13 -  The only "The One" questions you'll need.

First, do you feel challenged by your woman?

A relationship, as I've touched on before, shouldn't be a static creature. Ahealthy relationship grows each year, and develops into a more deep connection
and bond with each other. Yetgrowth won't occur if you don't feel challenged by your woman to keep
improving. 


Second, do you respect your woman?

Respect has the tendency to wane and wither without proper attention.No one deserves respect unconditionally (sans perhaps your parents), and the
level at which we respect people should gradually rise or decrease. Do yourespect your woman's career, morals, intentions, life habits, hobbies, and
choices?

Finally, is she, or does she have the potential to be your best friend?

It turns out that relationships, after the sparks and chemistry die off slowly, areabout the friendship you form with your woman. 
Your woman ideally should be one of your best friends.

14 - Day to day chemistry

The day to day of a relationship is the partthat truly matters and makes you happy and fulfilled. That's when you truly lovesomeone for who they are, as opposed to becoming enamored with how they fittogether on paper and the idea of who they are.

15 - People are who they are bythe time you get into a relationship with them. 

16 - In other words, don't put her in your shoes from above.
Before you unequivocally state that you don't do this, just imagine how many
times you've used the phrase "I don't know/care, you decide."
For God's sake, just decide where to eat once in a while. And not just in the "Idon't care, but not x, y, z, a, b, or c. Anything else is fine."

The point here is to avoid being a passive participant in your relationship...because in what way is it a relationship then?

17 - Let her feminine qualities shine.

Women are nothing if not their egos and insecurities.

Don't undermine her traditionally feminine and caretakingqualities.


What are traditional feminine qualities?

Qualities centered on nurturing, caretaking, providing, delicateness, being pretty,and curating. Besides those, traits that she prides herself on. The ones where ifyou take her duties away from 

If you let her fulfill what she perceives her duties to be, and every woman hasdifferent perceptions in different relationships, she will retain her self-esteemand channel that confidence back into the relationship with you.

18 -  However, all of those roles are predicated on treating your woman in the waythat a man treats his mate... and not in the way that a father treats his daughter.
You must straddle the line between your protective instincts, and smotheringfather territory.
Fathering has the distinct effect of making someone feel smothered and that theyare being tracked for someone else's purposes... and how exactly did you reactto your parent that was like that? At the very least, annoyed. At worst, wantingto break free and get far, far away.

This isn't a chapter about avoiding clinginess; rather, it's about avoiding theurge to constantly check in, nag, direct her activities, lecture, preach, and
accommodate.

She will feel obligated to spend timewith you, and may even do so sometimes out of guilt.
You're putting your expectations on someone else, and anytime that happens,they will feel burdened to have to live up to them.

19 -  it's unavoidable that people come into relationships and even dates with a bit of baggage.

Baggage is simply pre-conceived notions, assumptions, and habits thatpeople carry with them into their next relationships as a result of their past.
Be carefulabout what gets into the open.No sexual details. Stay within generalities. DON'T COMPARE HER TO YOUREX.

And when you find out something that you'd rather not have known? Jealousy.Inadequacy. Insecurity. All of the emotions that you thought you had in checkcan come tumbling out if you find out something that just happens to strike achord of your biggest insecurities.

20 - Women from birth have been taught to suppress their sexuality, slut-shame, preserve false modesty, downplay their libidos, and otherwise act the part
of "the lady." They are encouraged to open up emotionally to their friends, andsocialize with empathy and sympathy.

so you mustcultivate a safe space for her to be sexually open with you.

21 -  Absence makes the heart (and other things) growfonder.

We all know the feelings that arise after not seeing your significant other for astretch of time - the longing, the missing, the increased libido.

Making the conscious choice to spend time away from her, which has the funnyeffect of making her clamor to be your top priority time and time again. Whenyou own your own space, you also give her her own space, which she will loveyou for.
You will become the "cool, chill boyfriend" that isn't clingy or possessive... andyet (ironically) she will begin to assert a kind of ownership over you that tellsyou that she misses you more, and cares about what you're doing and whoyou're seeing.

22 -  What about making you and your needs the center of your world and actions?

When you subordinate yourself to your woman and place all of her prioritiesabove yours, what does your day-to-day look like? You do what she wants to do,
you spend your time taking care of her and catering to her, and most importantlyyou leave no room for what is important to you.
In a sense, the relationship has taken you and your priorities hostage, and youwill only see your priorities and hobbies alive again when the relationship ends!

This is a chapter about avoiding being a people-pleaser, because people-pleaserstend to be taken advantage of, taken for granted, and be criminally under-appreciated. People-pleasers also tend to eschew their own needs, because theythink that other people's priorities are more important than theirs.

23 -  Initial chemistry, the electric spark, and the ensuing honeymoon period is one ofthe easiest things to accomplish.
It doesn't require any effort because you're not really living in the real world atthat point. You're just riding a hormonal and emotional high at the prospect of
finding someone that likes you as much as you like them, and it's a self-fuelinginfatuation cycle.
And then reality hits. Work starts to ramp up. The infatuation wears off.


So how can you channel effort into the fire?


First, recall how you went out of your way to see her and do little things for her,just to see how she would react. 

Second, routine is death for a relationship. It's the hallmark of a lack of effortand being resigned to a status quo that may or may not be fulfilling. So generatespontaneity, even if you have to plan it! You clearly enjoy spending time withyour woman, so why not spend time with her in new and exciting places andevents? Don't live your relationship on the couch of your apartment - rememberhow exciting it was to explore and share the world with her!

Finally, when you're used to something or someone, you eventually stop takingnotice of the little things that they do for you. They just become invisible
because you are so accustomed to it. That's not positive, and it's a shortcut tosaying that things have been taken for granted.Take a step back, and try to really document all the things that your woman does
for you. Thank her profusely, and praise her on her own life andaccomplishments. Chances are, that praise is incredibly under-utilized.

24 - I touched upon this in the previous chapter, but breaking the daily humdrumroutine of your relationship is one of the most effective steps in maintain afulfilling partnership.

For some, this means spending some time apart and being able to appreciatewhat their partner brings into their life.

For some, this means going out together with to re-discover why you enjoyedspending so much time together in the first place.

For some, this means trying to fuse two different hobbies together so they canboth indulge in each other's lives.

And yet for others, this means experimenting sexually.

*A routine is not always negative, but it frequently leads to boredom in a
relationship and with each other, which causes each party to seek excitement and
varying degrees of fulfillment outside of the relationship.

It's all about putting forth the effort into examining where you can injectexcitement into the routine and continue to explore each other's personalities.

Take an improv class together, volunteer together, go camping together, or re-model your home together


1. Being assertive isn't being an asshole. Assholes play with emotionsand prod and provoke, while assertive and dominant men simply aren't afraid tostate their mind.

2. Tarzan usually leads. Take the lead in your relationship like societyand your women probably expect and prefer.

3. No time machines allowed during arguments. Don't bring up issuesform the past and inject them into current arguments.

5. Men can be "crazy" too. You are entitled to your opinion andperspective, but realize that that doesn't mean other people should share it oraccommodate it.

6. Make it safe for her to be vulnerable. Create a space for your womanto share her insecurities with you and strive to turn them into things she is proudabout.

7. Match up your styles of affection. Everyone has different lovelanguages and it can be immensely helpful to discover which you are yourwoman are.

8. Compromise, don't sacrifice. Let your woman keep his own prioriesand hobbies, because those are what drew you to her in the first place.

9. Why can't you be more like Alison? Never compare your woman toanother female that you both know, and especially never your ex.

10. Really, her favorite bands are a dealbreaker? Examine if the traits youemphasize really matter to you, or if you just think they matter and haveunfounded expectations surrounding them.

11. Rationalization is usually a cover. If you find yourself constantlyrationalizing and making excuses for your how you are treated by your woman,it's time to examine what that says about the level of respect in your relationship.

12. Who loves you the most? You! A woman is like the sunroof of a car- great to have, but only a part of the overall package.

13. Inspire her, motivate her. Inspire and motivate your woman by firstbecoming someone inspiring and motivating yourself.

14. The only "The One" questions you'll need. Does she challenge you,do you respect her, and are you potentially best friends? Everything else is awash.

15. Day to day chemistry beats the rich yoga instructor. What trulymatters in a relationship is explosive chemistry and communication. Everythingelse on your laundry list of desired traits is simple a "nice to have."

15. "Maybe" is usually "I'm scared to actually say no." Examine theones you are saying no to a commitment, and discover that there may be
underlying reasons behind it.

16. Relationship pants are meant for two. Don't be a passive party andlet your woman plan everything and dominate the interactions. She will getnothing out of the relationship.

17. Let her feminine qualities shine. Women have egos. Don't belittletheir traditionally feminine qualities, traits, and skills.

18. She already has one father. There is a thin line between protectingand taking care of her... and fathering and nagging.

19. Exes are like Seal Team 6. Do not mention exes except on a need toknow basis, and control the spread of information whenever possible.

20. Why doesn't she just "want sex more"? We men desire sexualopenness and desire... too bad women have been taught to suppress their sexualurges since youth.

21. Absence makes the heart (and other things) grow fonder. Takingyour own space on a day to day basis, and making her take her own, will makeher respect and desire you more.

22. It's okay to be selfish sometimes. Don't let the relationship and yourwoman's priorities take over yours, because then you will lose yourself.

23. A spark is easy, a fire is tough. Initial chemistry requires literallyzero work, but stoking the relationship fire is all effort, all the time.

24. Fear the routine. Routine is the bane of many relationships, so stepoutside your comfort zones and allow you and your woman to see each other in
different lights.
